Hey they're welcome back.
All right if you thought so far everything's been really really cool.
Things are gonna get a lot cooler.
We're going to be talking about the Internet backbone.
So this we recognize this because I've been talking about it for the last couple of lessons.
But some of you may have had a question that is what do the arrows mean.
I mean it's kind of like magic right.
I just told you that we send off the IP address to the servers the server responds with some files but
this is just magic like what do these arrows mean? So, we're going to talk about that in this lesson.
And we're going to do that with this really, really fuzzy diagram that I found online from this Web site.
It's not the clearest picture but it actually has some really important things so I want to use that
to demonstrate to you what the Internet backbone is.
So, as some of you know the way we connect in our homes, at a coffee shop, or at work is we usually have
Wi-Fi or you know maybe sometimes we still have people they are using Ethernet and cables and connecting
through those.
But for now let's just focus on the fact that we have a home and we have Wi-Fi and this Wi-Fi essentially
gives us Internet from the router.
You can see this little person over here working hard with a router next to him and this router is connected
all the way to something called a modem.
And this is something that if you ever sign up for Internet or change providers you most likely had
somebody come to your house and install something.
And that's essentially this box over here and the modem is something that allows the ISP the Internet
Service Provider, this big building over here,
we remember, that to connect to it.
So this modem has the signal towers that transmit signals of,
you know Google.com and it receives these messages and then this is why I picked this image just
because I think it's incredible you see this wire that is connected all the way to the ISP and then
the Internet Service Provider, the ISP is connected to this magical blue cable that is the Internet backbone
and something that's really important in this image is the fact that there's Wi-Fi which is over the
air but at the end of the day everything is kind of connected through cables.
So one of you, or some of you, or many of you, or all of you might be wondering what the hell is this Internet
backbone thing.
It looks, (it) sounds cool.
But this - this is kind of vague, so I found a really, really cool - cool thing that we can do together so let's
open up Google Chrome and I'll post this Web site in the notes after this lesson.
But if you go over here you actually see the Internet backbone. So, let's say we're in Brazil and we want
to search Google.com.
Well from Brazil, from our home, through Wi-Fi, it connects to our router, to our modem and then all the way
to our Internet Service Provider lets say (the) Internet service provider is over here and then, through
cables it connects all the way to, let's say this point over here, and let's say, for now that the Google
servers are located somewhere in Portugal over here.
Well that signal of me looking for that IP address of Google and looking for those Google files is going
to go through this submarine cable.
Yeah, you heard that right.
It's a physical cable that goes at the bottom of the sea floor from Brazil all the way to Portugal where
the Google servers are.
And then the Google server says yep I got those files here there are and sends it all the way back.
Through the ISP all the way back to our house.
Isn't that cool that there's physical cables that are connecting, and creating the Internet so you know
there are times where somebody destroys or something happens where these cable connections are cut off
and you sometimes lose internet connection that way.
But yeah the the Internet backbone is literally just this let me see if I can zoom out here to this
network all over the world, of connected cables so that we can transfer these files all over the world.
And just to show you how insane this is somebody from the Opte Project over here - I got this off of Wikipedia,
mapped out, and I believe this was in 2015, just 30 percent of the network, and you can see over here that
each one of these dots is an IP address.
So, a computer that is connected to another computer, that is connected to another computer, and that's
the Internet.
The Internet is just all these connected computers that are just transferring files between each other
and as web developers and this is the coolest thing.
And that's why I just think everybody should be a web developer because it's so cool.
You're allowing this to happen.
You're allowing this transferring of files from one computer to another, transferring knowledge from
Brazil to Portugal and all over the world and you get to be part of it - you get to be part of this networking
and get to evolve.
So hope that gets you excited.
I'm you know, I'm definitely - definitely when I found this out and, when this kind of picture,
of the Internet came to me I just you know I knew that this was the career for me.
So, hopefully that gets you excited in the next session.
I'm going to show you something really cool.
Traceroute before we finish up the lesson and we get into the next sections so hope that was cool see
in the next one.